---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/literature-review/loth2017/","title":"The EU-AIMS Longitudinal European Autism Project (LEAP) design and methodologies to identify and validate stratification biomarkers for autism spectrum disorders","tags":["Eye-tracking","EEG","Neuroimaging","MRI","Cognition","Biomarkers","stratification","Genetics"]}
---


## The EU-AIMS Longitudinal European Autism Project (LEAP): design and methodologies to identify and validate stratification biomarkers for autism spectrum disorders

> [!Cite]
> Loth, E., Charman, T., Mason, L., Tillmann, J., Jones, E. J. H., Wooldridge, C., Ahmad, J., Auyeung, B., Brogna, C., Ambrosino, S., Banaschewski, T., Baron-Cohen, S., Baumeister, S., Beckmann, C., Brammer, M., Brandeis, D., Bölte, S., Bourgeron, T., Bours, C., … Buitelaar, J. K. (2017). The EU-AIMS Longitudinal European Autism Project (LEAP): Design and methodologies to identify and validate stratification biomarkers for autism spectrum disorders. _Molecular Autism_, _8_(1), 24. [https://doi.org/10.1186/s13229-017-0146-8](https://doi.org/10.1186/s13229-017-0146-8)


>[!md]
> **Year**:: 2017   
> **Citekey**:: loth2017  
> **itemType**:: journalArticle  
> **Journal**:: *Molecular Autism*  
> **Volume**:: 8  
> **Issue**:: 1   
> **Pages**:: 24  
> **DOI**:: 10.1186/s13229-017-0146-8    

> [!LINK] 
> [2017_Loth et al._The EU-AIMS Longitudinal European Autism Project (LEAP) design and methodologies to identify and va.pdf](zotero://select/library/items/E6XT44AL)

> [!Abstract]
>
> The tremendous clinical and aetiological diversity among individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) has been a major obstacle to the development of new treatments, as many may only be effective in particular subgroups. Precision medicine approaches aim to overcome this challenge by combining pathophysiologically based treatments with stratification biomarkers that predict which treatment may be most beneficial for particular individuals. However, so far, we have no single validated stratification biomarker for ASD. This may be due to the fact that most research studies primarily have focused on the identification of mean case-control differences, rather than within-group variability, and included small samples that were underpowered for stratification approaches. The EU-AIMS Longitudinal European Autism Project (LEAP) is to date the largest multi-centre, multi-disciplinary observational study worldwide that aims to identify and validate stratification biomarkers for ASD.
>.
> 


## Notes

| File | file.name |
| ---- | --------- |

{ .block-language-dataview}

[[_notes\|_notes]]

## Figures

